Great, so we had a look at the basic input fields up there,
we learned about modifiers and learned how to set up a text area, so multi-line strings.
Now it's time to come to more complicated inputs, though it's not that difficult to be honest but I want
to have these checkboxes here hooked up so that we can see if these are checked with true or false and
then thereafter, we'll have a look at radio buttons and a dropdown here.
Well let's start with the checkboxes first, over in the html code,
we see that here is the code responsible for the checkboxes.
I do have two check boxes which are inputs here nested inside of a label,
that is how we set it up in Bootstrap, in the css framework I'm using here and there, we basically then
have them well to look like they look here.
The important thing now is we want to bind these inputs here to a specific model, to a specific property.
To be very precise,
what I want to achieve here is we're in the area of selecting which kind of mails we want to receive
in this example, right,
we can check the mail and the normal mail and then some info mails and I want to add that both into
one array because that would make sense to have one property storing an array of mails we want to receive.
We could store it because while we get our values here, so we could simply store these strings in an
array and then once we loop through the array, well we can easily see
okay we got the send mail value and we get the send info mail value or only one of the two.
So that allows us to see which mails the user wants to receive,
how can we tell vuejs to do that for us, to add this to an array?
Well first of all I'm going to set up the array down there,
so after the message I'm adding send mail and this is an empty array by default because we haven't checked
anything
and then I can go up to my checkboxes and now I again add v-model and the important thing is to add
it to the input,
so not to the surrounding label, not to the surrounding div, to the individual input. The module I want to bind
to is of course send mail, so this property I just created down there, this array and the same is
true for the other input,
I use the very same model here.
So I'm binding two inputs to the same model and what vuejs will do for me is it will detect this,
it will detect that
well we got a say in the same model here, that we got two checkboxes here and will automatically merge
the values of these checkboxes into this single array we set up there. So we can see this if I scroll
down and here where I output send mail,
I want to output all the elements in the array,
I already prepared a list item here where I can simply loop through all my items in the sendMail array.
So here, item in sendMail and sendMail of course refers to this array, the array again which I'm binding
up here on my checkboxes and with that, I can simply loop through that and then here output the item
to output all the strings saved in the array so all the checkboxes checked.
Well let's see if that works as we want it to work,
now we can fit it on one page and if I hit send mail, you see it's added down there to the list,
if I add send info mail, that is also added and if I remove send mail, we only have send info mail.
So this is how we can add the values of checkboxes to an array and we can again tell vuejs to use
the same array,
we'll be simply using the same model here on our checkbox input fields.
If we would have different models, different properties, well we would store it in different properties of
course
but if you want that behavior which is not that untypical if you've got a group of checkboxes,
this is how easy vuejs makes it for you to use it like that.